We now have a basic understanding of the Power BI universe,
so it's time to dive a little deeper now and we will start that deep dive with the query editor.
What that is and how this works,
let's find that out.
So this is the workflow of Power BI desktop that you already know.
Now in this module, we will focus on the left part, on the data preparation and to be more precise, on the
query editor,
now what is a query?
A query is simply the connection you establish between the Power BI desktop file and the source files
and the good thing about that connection is that you can kind of extract the data out of the source
file and work with that data
and by working, I mean cleaning and shaping. This means you can delete rows,
delete columns, add columns or even combine queries.
Now of course you don't change just source files, you only work in the query editor which has that connection
to the source file and reads out the data
but you won't delete the rows in your initial source files of course. Now the important thing is that after you
finish that cleaning and shaping, so the data preparation, then you load the data into the data model,
this is the second step.
So whenever I'm talking about importing or loading in this module, I'm always referring to the connection
between the query editor and the source files, I'm not talking about the actual data model right now
and that's an important difference that you have to keep in mind. There is query editor with the data
preparation and there is the data model which takes place after you loaded the data from the query editor
in this data model.
Now enough of this theory, let's see how this works by going back to the project file that we created in
the last video,
let's do this.
So here we are in that empty file with no data in it so far of course and we are in the data model,
that was the thing I was just talking about and you can see that because we have those three views, so
the report view, the data view and the relationship view, we'll come back to that in the other modules
but now we want to work with the query editor, and how can we access the query editor?
Well we basically have two options,
we can go to get data right here and click that and then we can connect the Power BI desktop file
to the sources and then this navigator appears,
you might remember that navigator from the first module when we did our first little GDP project. In
this navigator, we had two options. We could either load the data we connected Power BI desktop to,
this means we established that query, so that connection automatically and load the query without any
changes into the data model
or we could press edit and this meant nothing more than opening the query editor after establishing
that connection.
Now we don't want to do that right now because we want to work directly in the query editor,
so to open the query editor, you simply can press onto that button right here
and this is the query editor now
and what we want to do is we want to import data, right? Now let's take a look at the data we want to
import and how we can import them in the next video.